well with Forza we want to appeal to a
wide range of customers and people play
the game for a lot of different reasons
real world tracks are compelling because
people want to go out and drive the
tracks that they see the TV and famous
racecar drivers have driven from all
around the world these exotic locations
in particular was a great opportunity
for us to get a track in Germany and
have some balance across Europe Parkin
Heinz great track it's been in DTM it's
been in lots of great sports car racing
as well as other types of racing around
the world it's a really old track it's
very high speed track so it had a lot of
great components for us hockenheim is is
very different from the Alps it's in the
middle of Germany so it's one of the
flattest tracks in the world there
really isn't any elevation change to the
track itself so it was just a very
different experience it's completely
surrounded by trees almost that sort of
black forest field so that's something
that we try to keep in mind as well last
year turn 10 studios traveled to Germany
to capture the track to bring it to life
and fortune motorsport for first thing
we wanted to do was drive around the
track and get multiple perspectives of
video for reference and that really
helps us get a good feeling for the
track and helped other artists aren't
fortunate enough to come on the trip you
have to get a real perspective of how
things correlate to one another I plan
was to capture every square inch of this
place from the smallest details like
tire skids to a spherical panoramas
between the three of us I would estimate
that we won't be leading this track with
less than
thousand photos we have many different
techniques for capturing the track one
of them is that we lay down GPS lines so
we'll actually walk or drive around the
track with different GPS devices so that
we can accurately reproduce the
topography and the camber of the track
there's a guy that wears this
military-grade GPS harness with his
little antenna it's sub centimeter
accurate on the horizontal and it's sub
foot accurate on the vertical and he
walks the edges of the tracks poor guy
that has this has to walk the inner and
outer loops of this circuit and then get
the outer barrier so that we get the
exact information of where the ribbon
goes where the curbing is where the
walls are all the structures everything
is inch-perfect where this stuff exists
all the camber angles in the corner
generally the process for creating a
track tends to be the same for all
tracks
they'll be slight differences between
real world and fictional tracks well the
first thing we say is what is the feel
for this track what are we trying to
impart to the player when it comes to
real world tracks we want to make them
as accurate as possible how can I have
in particular that comes down to the
Mercedes grandstand there's a grandstand
there that's shaped like of giant C and
it dominates the entire track it's
almost like a monument to the area
itself so we put a lot of detail into it
when you do look at it it just has this
sense of presence when we feel this is
really solid we move on to the next
stage which is your refine face when we
start doing our textures basically
everything is there and to a level that
we would consider shippable but may not
have that extra level of sparkle that we
want it to and then we take it into the
polish phase which is where all the love
comes in to get in and we model all the
little details so we try and say okay at
this point we know a lot of people are
gonna hit this corner so we're actually
gonna scuff this corner up a little bit
so that they've got a little bit of that
character to it for the ultimate test
we'll bring in pro race drivers guys
like Gunnar Jeanette you've actually
raced on a lot of these tracks to give
us a speed back because it can be engine
perfect but you can be like you know I
use this brake marker this rubber strip
right before the curving on this and
then I turn and this seems like it's
happening just a little bit late or this
bump isn't quite bad enough this upsets
my car when I go in over here
so we go in there and we make sure we
get all those little subtleties right as
well it's when you're racing a track
like Hawk and I'm in the game it's gonna
feel and look just like it does in the
real world to real drivers we've
measured we filmed and we photographed
is time to take all of that source
material and bring it to life here it is
in all its glory and fortune motorsport
for its hockenheim
you